# serratia-code
The script enables systematic identification of Type VI Secretion System (T6SS) loci and their associated orthologous groups in *Serratia* genomes.

## Usage
Serratia_locus_finder.py detects T6SS loci from the output file generated by *Proteinortho v6.3.1*. You can modify the script as needed to adjust the definition of core T6SS components.

```shell
python3 serratia_locus_finder.py <filename.tsv>
```
After identifying the distribution of T6SS across *Serratia* genomes, you can calculate the presence/absence (P/A) values of all orthologous groups. First, cluster all *Serratia* proteins using *CD-HIT v4.8.1*, and save the output as a plain text file. Rename this file to input.txt, which will be used as the input for the cdhit-to-matrix.py script. This script will generate an output file named output_matrix.txt, also in TXT format, representing the presence/absence matrix of all orthologous clusters.

## Usage

```shell
python3 cdhit-to-matrix.py <input.txt> <output.txt>
```
You should rename 'output.txt' to 'orthologue_file.txt', which serves as the input file for Comparative_T6SS.py. This script identifies T6SS<sup>serratia-1b</sup>-associated orthologous proteins.

```shell
python3 Comparative_T6SS.py <orthologue_file.txt> <presence_genomes.txt> <absence_genomes.txt>
```
'presence_genomes.txt' and 'absence_genomes.txt' are lists of genome names  for T6SSserratia-1b+/-, respectively. After identifying orthologous groups that are statistically associated with the presence of T6SSserratia-1b, the find_connected.py script can be used to detect all adjacent proteins in these clusters.

```shell
python3 findconnected.py <positive_ID>
```

You can find all the example files in Datasets documents.
